Emel so survival suits are comrades of
online entrepreneurs connect with their
audiences to do personal grams check
your watching 100 days of SEM what is up
my smart smart friends I'm Brendon
Hufford I've made a radical change in my
life thanks to SEO and I'm here to help
you do the same by putting out a hundred
videos a hundred podcast episodes and a
hundred blog posts in 100 days as a part
of the 100 days of SEO project
I'm also the SEO director at clique
studios I'm a former teacher and just an
all-around regular dude I am so excited
to share this workshop Wednesday with
you but first I want to thank
hrf state Reps is the sponsor of this
episode they're a fantastic tool I will
be showing you how do I use them in
competitive and keyword research
throughout this episode also if you want
access to all of these slides and you
want access to my pillar content
masterclass where I'll teach you how to
create content that ranks in Google and
you want access to all of the bonuses
from every other episode of the 100 days
of SEO simply go to 100 days of seo.com
slash join again that's 100 days of
seo.com slash join today we're taking a
look at pixel happy Studios I'll get
into more of what they do here in a
moment but first before we get started
before I jump out of the slides and we
start really drilling down and really
workshopping this website and their SEO
and where the opportunities are and
where they're kind of missing things I
want to just kind of ground ourselves
right in SEO ranking factors the things
that allow you to rank in Google are
your website your content the things on
your website your on-page Authority then
your overall Authority this is primarily
links from other websites but all of the
other signals around the internet that
tell Google you're an authority and then
it's really everything else but the
things that matter most are your website
your content in your authority and we're
gonna focus mostly today on content so
let's go ahead and hop out of the slides
and take a look at things so right now
we're over in a truss we're using their
keyword explorer I wanted to first look
at like the main keyword WordPress web
design now this would lead you to
believe that this is an easy keyword to
rank for but red flags that come up
right away the cost per click is $17 per
click not per conversion so somebody
who's advertising on WordPress web
design is paying $17 per click that's
extremely expensive we'll go more into
search intent here in a little bit but
this says medium it takes about 19
websites to rank in the top 10 the
problem is this metric and I've talked
to a charts about this keyword
difficulty it only takes the number of
links into effect or into account it
does not take into account the domain
rating so this is out of a hundred if
you look the websites that are ranking
seventy one ninety three ninety seven
ninety two fifty five like they might
not have tons of Link's pointing to them
necessarily but these websites are so
authoritative that this is really really
a difficult keyword to rank for so what
we have to do is yes it is attainable to
rank in here at some point
but you're just not gonna get on the
first page with anything less than you
know a forty eight is the lowest one
like that's really really difficult and
if we hop over here to fix will have
these studios i'm using the hrs chrome
extension here their root domain is a
domain rating of thirty so I'll be using
href s-- domain rating dr here for
everything and if you look being a
thirty that's just not going to compete
doesn't matter how many links we get
we're gonna have two those links are
gonna have to really increase the
overall authority of the website so kind
of looking over here at pixel happy
studios let me minimize this just kind
of cruising through the home page you
can see we're there's some good
conversion stuff you know obvious calls
to action start a free consultation get
started here's how it works explore our
process it really pushes people get some
testimonials at the bottom I like that
there's a portfolio that has some
information in here we'll talk more
about this here in a little bit so the
one thing that I really do like over
here is this little kind of pop in the
bottom do you want to look great online
and grow your business good this is kind
of telling me that Yale understands
exactly what the audience wants right
somebody that would hire Yale knows like
they you know I want to look great
online I want to grow my business is
great for simple strategies to grow your
online business I'm not super sure
what's in here but hopefully it's
something that leads them back to hiring
her the other thing that I want to take
a look at here is just like where you
know what are we ranking for right now
what are the top pages I love this top
pages here
I see like giftable WooCommerce
formidable forms not really SEO focus
stuff and then the portfolios and things
like that
nothing really SEO focused I also like
to look at this Best Buy links because I
want to see what pixel happy is getting
links to and if we look it's it's the
vast majority just go to the homepage
I'm gonna hop over here to a few
competitors so we have RK a Inc looking
at their website in the the SEO
standpoint so a little bit higher domain
rating of 42 some keywords the things I
want to take a look at here their top
pages you know what is really helping
them in search so obviously this is not
doing anything even though it's at the
top and when I come down here when I
change my mind my mind about canva for
work yes I'm working at the beach no I'm
not getting anything done like a lot of
kind of thought leadership II things
free stock photos blog they have a link
to that which is great nothing's really
been done I don't see a lot of links in
here in the top pages we'll hop over to
Best Buy links but I want this also
inform how I'm thinking about content
strategy like is there anything in here
that I can model I don't really see
anything that I can model by a course
read the book retreat went like there's
nothing in here that I can I can model
I'm best buy links just again see is
there content that they have that is
just bringing in like tons of links and
here it doesn't look like it they have
this one graphic that says that there's
38 referring domains for it I'm not
super well let's open it up and suit it
is it looks like it's just this thing
for a canva for work they have awkward
marketing this has 14 websites linking
do something meaningful online again
this is just a blog homepage so not any
there's no like one unique piece of
content that's tried getting a ton of
links the one thing that I do like yell
that I think you could really get out of
this is this landing page is fantastic
for the e-book of like in it Maps
directly I feel like this your opt-in
here can kind of map a little indirectly
of like four simple strategies to grow
your online business versus this one
that's like don't hire a web designer
until you read this the only people
opting in for this are gonna be people
who are thinking about hiring a web
designer and your
like oh my list is super curated
everybody on my list that your list
could be people that just want to grow
their online business this list is
people who absolutely want to hire a web
designer and are really considering it
and it walks through all this other
smart things that maybe you have in
yours but it's just a framing difference
right then hopping over to power at
production so this is a more powerful
website domain rating of 61 I
immediately was like all right let's
look at what they have in terms of
content it's nothing it's all it's just
their projects they they rank for the
names of the people that they've done
websites for which is worthless they
should you know what I mean there's no
that's not what you want to be ranking
for it's not gonna drive new clients and
then even kind of looking down through
here hit your marketing like there's
monthly marketing package messaging
there's nothing here that's really worth
modeling and then finally hopping over
to the website dual it's a really
interesting website because originally I
thought it was like an analogy of like a
doula for websites but Sarah who runs
this website is actually a doula so she
also does webs like she has all this
content on her website for doulas I'm
sure that that's like a primary part of
her clients so again here we have
another opt-in get my free guide five
simple steps to a website that works
like I show these three things to show
that like everybody's doing this we are
exhausted by free e-books nobody and I
do this on my own website sometimes too
like don't get me wrong I have the
opt-in things that lead magnets but like
oh we've everybody's website has these
they don't mean anything anymore that's
why I think this one is something over
here at RK Inc is actually special right
this is so different than just like hey
here's five tips maybe you want it
because I thought I needed to have an
opt-in this what this feels like to me
on this website no disrespect but it
feels like I somebody told me I'm
supposed to have one of these so I'll do
one and then just kind of looking at the
website do list so again DR 33 not a ton
of Link's coming in not really pulling
in any sort of significant traffic in
terms of things that you might be able
to model if you look like doula business
cards doula stock photos doula jobs
doula domain names like this is perfect
but you can see and maybe this is the
takeaway here is that this website is
really honed in on
audience whereas on pixel happy Studios
that I don't know who this is for you
know and I understand this is an SEO
review but you're not gonna get traffic
and nobody's gonna link to you if you're
not saying like I'm for you we help
visionaries creatives professionals and
educators you've literally just said
everybody nobody reads this and goes oh
this is for me and that's what you want
on the homepage and that's what's gonna
earn you links and earn you rankings and
if we're talking about having a content
strategy I see this is the core of it
I'd really advise checking out the
better branding course in wandering in
Philly wandering in Philly again a
membership community by Jason and
Caroline look the better branding course
in there really helps you narrow down on
like who your audience is like mine for
SEO for the rest of us is really
creative entrepreneurs and I even feel
like that's too big right but this is
even bigger than that which I know is
way too big so I would be really really
concerned about this and making sure
that this is narrowed down one person I
would really consider modeling is
Shannon Mattern over at WP BFF now
Shannon has a bunch of different
audiences it's di wires its people that
want to hire her it's people that want
to buy her courses but she's really
somebody interesting to kind of keep an
eye on let's take a look at what she
owns um in terms of content so Shannon's
been able to steadily build wet build
links or having links kind of coming in
a lot of stagnation though in the last
year 2018 was really just no real
significant uptick you really want to
see this up into the right growth
continue and it should be around 150
right now and really we're not even
breaking a hundred here and you can see
that in terms of organic search these
pages are mostly worthless these are you
know ranking on the second third page
page one rankings are pretty solid so
let's take a look at where those are
when I hop over here and I look at the
top things that Shannon's websites
ranking for the ultimate guide to moving
from Squarespace to WordPress awesome
and granted this says 2017 but that's
really helpful like this is for I would
argue for the more DIY audience but it
still provides a lot of trust there's a
lot of helpful things in here you have
to be careful about creating content
that's not for your actual audience
there's a lot of reasons to create
content but if we're talking about SEO
and we're talking about content that's
gonna drive business your content has to
be a demo of your
work and I'll give you a full strategy
and kind of thoughts here in a second
but you can see a lot of this like how
to make 10k a month like that I don't
know how much that gets somebody to hire
her
but again multiple audiences but if your
audience is your core audience is I want
people to hire me not buy my products or
hire me for coaching or whatever on
doing their website you know maybe it's
either a question of like create more
offerings and kind of tear them or let's
really focus on the content so kind of
hopping back over here so we kind of
look through competition think Shannon
is a good person to model in terms of
like alright her audience is a little
different than Yale's but it is she does
have it defined and is creating suffer
on that and the reason I say this is we
want to follow the I am SEO framework
here so we want to know their intent
when they're searching for something
what do they actually want and why do
they want it then let's give that to
them not only don't just give them what
they want understand why they want it
and speak to that as well then how what
is the asset we're gonna create in our
case we're creating content for pixel
heavy Studios website so we want to make
sure that that is usually like medium
form written content not too short not
like 300 words but also you don't need
to be a thousand two thousand words like
it has to be as long as it has to be
then obviously this asset will live on
the website know how you win is is
really all about search intent right
it's all about intent and WordPress web
design is messy remember I showed you
earlier the seventeen dollar the
seventeen dollar cost per click here the
reason is because you're competing with
with upwork which is just awful that's
extremely difficult you're also
competing with wordpress.com like that's
too much it's also a mixed intent
because people want to hire somebody but
then they also want to learn to do it
themselves the top results are videos
and that tells me this is actually a
youtube search people are searching this
a lot on YouTube they don't know but
then the next one is like do you want or
the ones below this or do you want to
hire a designer so Google still does not
know what the intention there is in that
search I think one of the really really
big opportunities and will kind of get
more into this here in a second in fact
let's just kind of jump into it now when
we're doing I'm gonna jump around when
we're doing topical research we're
looking
or topics that we can write about right
the Napoleon Dynamite gif is a must here
of course I always like to start by
looking on Quora some people bypass it I
think it's a gem in terms of finding
what people want now this is content you
could create that would map directly to
people hiring you what should I expect
from hiring a web designer is it worth
it to hire a web designer developer for
my first web site mmm
that's digging real deep that's a big
pain point like that's something that
people are you know it's my first web
site should I do it myself should I hire
somebody like you should be the voice on
this not some Rando is on Quora should I
hire a freelancer or web design company
again like what's the difference between
hiring an agency versus a one-person
shop and then really really what we're
looking at here is this kind of funnel
of people who are problem aware solution
where product aware and most aware so
when problem aware they know the
problems and pains they have what they
need to know is that solutions like ours
exist that will make a website for you
or even there's a way to to do the
things you want now we have to show them
we get their pain at this top level
these are people that want to look
professional online these are people
that want more clients they want all of
these things well the way to get those
five ways to look professional online in
less than five minutes like that shows
we get your pain like I get what you're
trying to do like you want to look like
a pro online you're tired of LinkedIn
being the only thing that comes up for
your name and then like some weird
pictures from college or something you
want to look like an absolute pro cool
we get your pain and we bring them a
layer deeper we take them to an article
that's then solution where all right
they're aware that solutions like ours
exist that a website would make me look
professional online all right let's show
how I can solve that pain so the article
might be simple WordPress sites that
help these five creative entrepreneurs
10x their business again trying to hone
down the audience a little bit but
showing a simple WordPress site like the
ones I can make for you will help you
increase your business then their
product to where they know they know at
this point pixel happy Studios can solve
my pain now we got to prove we're the
best option this is where your case
studies come in new site results in
eighty percent growth in one year boom
I'm into that I want eighty percent
growth
shir from a new website I'm down the
problem is right now and this is why I
haven't gone fullscreen again is these
don't tell us that this is great
but you helped with web design SEO and
online strategy and you have no results
here Karl is a restoration expert for
residential homes and house museums she
learned by doing their own word public
lot like nobody cares about Carla I know
that's a very harsh but what they really
care about is down in here here's what
happened
now let's let's talk about this let's
this is great project details are so
helpful this is so great that this is a
testimonial but there's no results there
are no where are the results what did
this do it's cool that she likes it but
like did her business tanked I work for
a web design agency I think arguably
click studios make some of the best like
marketing websites and I said as in like
websites meant to drive business for
people and even like it is a it is my
job it is what I'm paid to do to make
sure we don't accidentally wreck
somebody's business by deleting the
wrong page or consolidating the wrong
things or not setting up our redirects
properly when we do a redesign like all
of these things are part are what I
stake my career on in right now you
haven't told us any of that you haven't
told us that like it increased something
it you know something got better the
click-through rate give me some numbers
of what got better
I need that on every single one of your
portfolio pages and you have so many of
these and they're fantastic but let's
like really let's really dive in and
let's really show the results for every
single client and that means you have to
get access and you have to get real
numbers and you can ask for their Google
Analytics hopefully you had it when you
were doing the website just ask to hang
out there and ask if you can pull some
numbers and see what's changed and if
things have gotten worse than you build
that client relationship hey I noticed
this actually blah blah blah can I help
you fix that down the road the last
thing I would say here is what I would
love to see this is where I think you're
gonna absolutely just crush it
give him a road map give him a full road
map of where and how to work with you
this is what I did when I started photo
MBA I created this blog post called
start a photography business
20-18 how2guide for start-up
photographers and I said there are
basically six stages of a successful
photo business one two three four five
six right and then I went down through
and I started talking about it and I was
like hey here's your I literally went
through this whole thing here this
entire problem solution product and most
I went through that whole thing and then
I got into the six stages here's the
three biggest mistakes six stages boom
here's the photography business roadmap
Stage one I created this really cool
graphic I'm really proud of myself I did
it in canva I'm not a designer I don't
play one on TV or the Internet but I
said like here's your problem oh I know
their problems here's how you win
awesome and I go through this whole
thing they're like wow what do I do Oh
at this point just sign up for my free
email course you don't make any money
off your photography business yet just
sign up and yell this is where you could
just be like hey just sign up for my
email list then maybe you have another
lead magnet that's like hey the things
you need to know before hiring a web
designer and they're here but I go
through this whole thing now here it's
like Oh check out zero two photo check
out my course boom oh now you you're in
stage three alright cool
maybe you just want to chat with me
maybe you just want to pay for one
consulting call great now we're down
here maybe now you're ready to hire
somebody right and that's the last
couple just like you should really hire
somebody at this point and I just push
them through that and this really gives
people a lot of different ways to work
with me no matter what phase they're at
in their photography business whether
they make no money or it's a side hustle
or they're just kind of starting out or
they're actually really committed
they're making ten to twenty five K per
month etc I would love to see you have a
road map like this I think it would be
so so valuable so I hope that's helpful
if you are a wordpress designer or
developer and you're wondering like how
can I develop a content strategy I hope
this video has been helpful if you want
access to these slides and you want
access to my pillar content masterclass
and everything else awesome please join
our free community 100 days of seo.com
slash join I'll have all of the links
from this episode in there as well and
the slides I'm so excited I will see you
to morrow for tutorial
Thursday please check that out I've been
Brendon huffard don't forget to work
hard be nice people and don't get too
lost trying to create something that
matters
[Music]